ABBY: Coming up,
we're going to take a look at the dances
from all the seasons of Dance Moms
from the disasters to the flawless.
We'll see it all.
And I'll prove to you
that the more these Dance Moms butt out,
the better the dances become.
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct)
(cheering)
ABBY: So stick around
as I count down from the worst
to the best dance routines right now.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up♪
♪Get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls ♪
♪Living on the dance floor ♪
This is something
I've always wanted to do.
I'm about to share my favorite
dance performances,
including some incredible numbers
that didn't make the cut.
And since I'm Abby Lee Miller,
I'm going to do something
that no other choreographer
would dare do.
I'm going to show you
some disastrous moments.
So, get ready
because I'm about to count down
from the
worst to the very best dance performances
from all seasons.
Let's kick things off with a number
that was sabotaged by a dance mom.
The worst dance at number 10,
here's Pin-Up Girls.
(dramatic music playing)
(cheering)
SINGER: ♪My 15 minutes of fame,
I want it♪
♪I want it♪
♪My 15 minutes of fame, I want it♪
♪ I want it ♪
♪I want it, my 15...♪
(indistinct)
SINGER: ♪...of fame I want it,
I want it ♪
♪It's hard...♪
Good turn. Good job.
SINGER:
♪Paparazzi's following me, so I...♪
Chloe's headpiece's
falling in front of her face.
(laughing)
SINGER: ♪I want to shut down...♪
Oh, my God.
♪So I can shop all alone♪
I'm going to lose it.
SINGER: ♪That I can sell as my own♪
Oh, she can't see.
Put your head back, please, darling.
Oh, my God.
I'm going to lose it.
(cheering)
SINGER: ♪ My 15 minutes of... ♪
-Oh, no.
-SINGER: ♪I want it, I want it♪
♪My 15 minutes of fame, I want it♪
♪I want it♪
♪My 15 minutes of fame♪
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Overall high score,
junior trio with a score of 282
out of a 300.
First place goes to Abby Lee
Dance Company, Pin-Up Girls.
(cheering)
ABBY: Everybody
should remember that number.
That's the routine that started it all.
Were you watching the choreography?
The jumps, the kicks, the turns?
Or were you watching
Chloe's headpiece fall down
in front of her face?
That's what happens
when your mother's in the bar
having a drink.
What's more important,
your daughter or the drink?
Christi, get backstage and do your job.
You have a responsibility here
and I want to see that headpiece
sewn into your daughter's head.
That kid's headpiece
just ruined my entire number.
I choreographed
an adorable routine for Vivi-Anne.
Too bad her mother, Cathy, ruined it
with her horrible moves.
Here's a pretty embarrassing dance
at number nine,
The Bumble Bee.
SINGER: ♪Tastes so sweet
from her head to her feet♪
♪Know that's something
that can't be beat♪
♪No word of a lie, so don't even try ♪
♪Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honeybee♪
♪Can't you see? ♪
♪She's so fine♪
♪She's all mine♪
♪I'll adore her 'til the end of time ♪
♪No need to implore,
she's mine for sure♪
♪Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honeybee♪
♪There ain't no honey
sweeter than my honeybee♪
(cheering)
-So I apologize.
-All I have in this world is my name.
Whether it be at a...
-It won't...
-...at a local competition or...
It will not happen again.
...at a Broadway audition, it is my name.
I know, Abby.
And it won't happen again.
Because that was embarrassing.
You need to move on.
-We're going to move on.
-We moved on from...
♪We can move...♪
-Look, wait...
-From the wrong costumes...
♪We can move on...♪
-We moved on from the wrong outfits...
-♪ Moving on. Moving on up... ♪
-I know, but, Cathy...
-Abby, I know. I know.
-I know how you are.
-Okay.
I know how you are.
This kid is not a killer bee.
I have seen her do this number years ago
and she won everything.
And she looked adorable in the costume.
I mean, come on, Vivi-Anne.
You're a bee.
Where's that killer instinct?
Where's that drive?
Go get 'em.
Sting your mother.
Come on.
We're in New York and the supposed
cream-of-the-crop dance moms
couldn't even get it together enough
to bring proper leotards
and dance shoes.
Here's a perfect example
of what happens when dance moms
stress out their daughters.
Here's what you get,
a mediocre performance.
At number eight, Jailbirds.
SINGER: ♪ Boys♪
♪Games ♪
♪ Lies ♪
♪ Pain ♪
♪Don't let him hurt you ♪
♪Don't ever compromise♪
♪Don't walk into their web of lies♪
♪You've got to stand up ♪
♪You've got to take control♪
♪You've got to keep those boys in line♪
♪Don't let him use you♪
♪Don't let him fool around♪
♪There's only one thing on their mind♪
♪You've got to stand up ♪
♪Don't take it lying down♪
♪ Get off your back♪
♪It's such a crime ♪
♪If you don't wanna get hurt♪
♪Don't let him hurt you♪
♪Don't ever compromise ♪
♪Don't walk into their web of lies ♪
♪You've got to stand up ♪
♪ You've got to take control ♪
♪ You've got to keep those boys in line ♪
♪Don't let him use you♪
♪Don't let him fool around ♪
♪There's only one thing on their mind ♪
♪You've got to stand up ♪
♪Don't take it lying down♪
♪Get off your back♪
♪It's such a crime♪
♪If you don't wanna get hurt,
you've gotta hurt them first♪
Hurt Them First,
Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY: The number Jailbirds
was a tribute to Bob Fosse.
I think Mr. Fosse
would be rolling over in his grave
if he saw this number.
I mean, come on, girls.
It's sharp.
It's cool.
It's sophisticated.
Use your plie.
Get your hip down.
Close your rib cage.
Turn that thigh out.
What are you doing?
You have to let me down
and let me down big time.
Girls, I'm disappointed.
You made a lot of mistakes.
You were sloppy dancers
out there and you got cocky.
Tenth?
Abby Lee doesn't do tenth.
This didn't make the list,
but you got to see it.
I spend weeks planning
every little detail
that goes into a dance performance,
but then the kid gets on stage
and it all goes to hell in a handbasket.
Whenever a kid screws up,
I know there's always
a dance mom behind it.
Check out these, er, disastrous dances.
(soft music playing)
♪ Another year, another season ♪
♪ Another story closed again♪
(crowd murmuring)
She's crying.
(cheering)
(dance music playing)
SINGER: ♪ (indistinct) ♪
♪Mystery♪
♪ I'm so (indistinct) ♪
♪You can't see the half of me ♪
♪ And start to (indistinct) ♪
-(music stops)
-(cheering)
ANNOUNCER:
Give a nice round of applause.
That wasn't very comfortable.
(dance music playing)
SINGER: (singing in foreign language)
(no audible dialog)
(crowd cheering)
Oh, my...
SINGER: ♪ My dream last night♪
♪You had your smile so white♪
♪I thought your teeth are the stars♪
♪ We never got to say goodbye♪
♪ We never sat down and cried♪
♪And watched each other's tears
fall out ♪
♪So I never got a chance to tell you♪
♪Just exactly how well you♪
♪Carved your home in my heart♪
(crowd murmuring)
SINGER: ♪You can stay here
a while in this hotel heart♪
(Maddie crying)
No, no, no.
No.
Abby's going to freak out on me.
I want to go again.
Can I please go again?
I'll tell you what.
I've had it with these kids.
They keep forgetting their routines.
Think. Use your brain.
Dance.
They can't think of one step.
I mean, come on.
Really?
Moms, this is what I keep telling you.
Your children need to think
for themselves.
This is my reputation you're playing with.
If you are not prepared to do the solo,
you should not be entered.
The Abby Lee Dance
Company has a reputation
and you better live up to it.
I'm back counting down
from the worst to the best dances
from last season.
Brooke is one of the best acrobatic
students I've ever had
and she'll be dancing in Cirque
someday if she sticks with it.
But each week, it's always something
that gets in her way,
something or her mother.
At number seven,
here's Brooke in Garden of Eden.
SINGER: (singing in foreign language)
ANNOUNCER: The Garden of Eden
from Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY: They say that Adam made Eve.
I made Brooke.
She is an elegant performer on stage.
She's incredibly strong
and oh-so flexible.
But you combine those two elements
and you work diligently
year after year, after year,
then you can get on stage
and look like that.
She does it with ease.
She's a great performer.
She nails it every time on the stage.
And hey, let's face it,
all of those acrobatic stunts
impress the crowd.
People like tricks.
Gets them every time.
Every once in a while,
I like to really shake up
the judges with something different,
something a little wild,
something unexpected.
So I had the girls learn
how to do the death drop.
But it was the judges
who nearly dropped dead.
This dance was good, not great,
but good.
At number six, My Pumps.
(techno music playing)
SINGER: ♪Come on, girls ♪
♪Do you believe in pumps?♪
♪Cause I got something to sing about♪
♪And it goes something like this♪
♪Pumps♪
♪My pumps ♪
♪My pu-pu-pu-pu-pumps♪
♪ Sometimes I wake up in the morning♪
♪Don't want to get out of bed♪
♪All the stress and strife of life♪
♪Just running through my head♪
♪Then I walk over to my closet
and what do I see?♪
♪Rows and rows of shiny pumps
just staring back at me♪
♪My pumps get me into it♪
♪My pumps lift me up ♪
♪My pumps take me up so high ♪
♪Can never get enough ♪
♪My pumps ♪
♪Girl, get into it ♪
♪I'm feeling moans♪
♪ When I feel a five-inch,
Lord Jesus, I am home ♪
♪ You can't bring me down ♪
♪Don't you sit and hate♪
♪You can't bring me down♪
♪Just congratulate♪
♪Pumps ♪
♪ My pumps ♪
♪ Pumps ♪
♪My pumps♪
♪Here I go, click, click♪
♪Click, click♪
♪Click, click, click, click♪
♪Watch me while I catch a trick♪
♪Swish, swish, swish, sway♪
♪Pumps, pumps, pumps, pumps,
pu-pu-pu-pu-pu-pumps♪
♪My pumps ♪
♪ Pumps ♪
♪ My pumps ♪
♪My pumps ♪
♪ Pu-pumps, Pumps, Pumps ♪
(crowd cheering)
ABBY: Jazz dance
is America's true folk dance
and there's many different styles
of jazz from lyrical and contemporary,
all the way to musical theater.
And somewhere right in
between is jazz funk.
That's what My Pumps is.
It's creative.
It's fun.
And my girls rocked those wigs.
They love their fur costumes.
And Nia, she dropped it like a hot potato.
This didn't make the list,
but you got to see it.
Cathy a.k.a.
the hick from Ohio
is always going on and on
about how she's an amazing choreographer.
Well, here's proof of her talent,
ahem, or lack thereof.
And the dance moms
don't look so hot, either.
Here's a dance number
that never should
have seen the light of day.
SINGER: ♪ That lass has class♪
♪This chick is hip ♪
♪And if she takes you on a ride,
it's a real crazy trip♪
♪The style, that smile♪
♪That just goes on for miles♪
♪That makes her so hard to resist ♪
♪It all adds up to just one thing ♪
♪Yeah, that girl's just gotta be kissed♪
♪Better believe it ♪
♪Her clothes, her hair,
a look that's rare♪
♪ And when she's passing by you know
it's so hard not to stare♪
♪Those lips, those hips,
beyond compare♪
♪That sway so gently as they twist♪
-What the hell is she doin'?
-What is she doin'?
SINGER: ♪And it all adds up to just... ♪
What the hell was that?
She changed the dance.
CATHY: I pretty much took center stage
and I improvised
but I think that the moms probably
should have expected
that being a dance teacher,
I was going to put some of my own thing
into it to jazz it up.
They should have expected that.
And if they didn't, then they got caught
with their pants down.
ABBY: She changed the dance.
She's doing a solo out there.
What is she doing?
SINGER:
♪Yeah, that girl's just got to be...♪
She's trying to upstage everyone.
(cheer)
SINGER:
♪ ...be kissed, oh, yeah♪
She got us totally messed up.
That (bleep).
SINGER:
♪That chick's sure getting kissed♪
(cheering)
ABBY: We've seen some bad
and pretty disappointing routines
but now we're going to take a look
at some of the great ones.
Christi is always accusing
me of favoring Maddie
over her daughter, Chloe.
That's a bunch of bunk.
Chloe is a very talented,
beautiful, young dancer,
and if I didn't think so,
she wouldn't be on my competition team.
Chloe's got the drive, the dedication,
and the determination.
But she's also got Christi
for her mother.
Here's Chloe at number five
in her solo, Dream On a Star.
(mellow music playing)
SINGER: ♪Hush, now♪
♪Don't speak♪
♪This is just the start♪
♪Words can't save us,
spinning in my heart♪
♪Little things that bind ♪
♪ Are stronger than you know♪
♪ Gentle smiling heart♪
♪There'll always be hope♪
♪Dream on a star♪
♪We're more than we are ♪
♪Heaven's here tonight♪
♪ A magic burning bright♪
♪An angel full of light♪
♪You're never alone♪
♪Dream on a star♪
♪ We're more than we are ♪
♪Heaven's here tonight♪
♪A magic burning bright♪
♪An angel full of light ♪
♪You're never alone♪
♪Dream on a star♪
♪ Dream on a star ♪
♪Dream, dream, dream ♪
♪Dream, dream♪
♪Mm♪
(crowd cheering)
ANNOUNCER: Dream On a Star
(indistinct)
ABBY: I am so proud
of Chloe's Star performance.
She was excellent.
She nailed every single turn she did.
Her leaps landed without a sound.
Her leg lifted effortlessly.
I think Chloe has the whole package.
She has an amazing dancer's body.
She has beautiful lines.
She's going to make it someday
in this business.
There's no doubt about it.
Chloe will end up a professional dancer.
Let's just hope her mother
doesn't get in the way.
For a kid to give a great performance,
They have to bring something
more to the stage.
More than just dance ability
and technique.
They have to bring their feelings,
their emotion.
They have to bring that number to life.
And that's just what Maddie did
in her tribute
to her late grandmother
in this moving performance of Angel
at number four in my countdown
to the best performance
of last season.
(soft music playing)
SINGER: ♪You are the sky ♪
♪ The moon, and night♪
♪You are my life, a shining light ♪
♪These things I've learned♪
♪Are never ending stories ♪
♪We will tell ♪
♪You don't know
what a song you sang♪
how much joy you bring♪
♪You are my angel, angel♪
♪Asleep inside your halo, halo♪
♪I'm right beside you and you know♪
♪You know how much you're loved♪
♪I know you forever will be my angel♪
♪Since you believed in me ♪
♪ You turned my life into a dream♪
♪ I never could have known♪
♪How much your heart
would lift me up♪
♪You don't know what a song you sang♪
♪You don't know how much joy you bring ♪
♪You are my angel, angel♪
♪Asleep inside your halo, halo♪
♪ I'm right beside you ♪
♪And you know, you know
how much your loved ♪
♪I know you forever will be my angel♪
♪Asleep inside your halo, halo♪
♪I'm right beside you♪
♪ And you know, you know
how much you're loved♪
♪I know you forever will be my angel ♪
♪Forever will be my angel ♪
(crowd cheering)
My gosh, Maddie!
(laughing)
ABBY: I think Maddie
is a real performer.
She connects with the audience.
She sends that message.
She brings people to tears.
She inspires other people to dance.
She inspires me to be
a better choreographer.
Bravo.
Here's a dance
that you've never seen before,
but I think you should have.
(fanfare music playing)
SINGER:
♪And there's people all on medication ♪
♪ All over this town♪
♪For depression and anxiety♪
♪Going to turn it around♪
♪What did they do in the old days♪
♪When they were feeling obscure? ♪
♪Did they drink themselves silly♪
♪Or did they have their own cure? ♪
♪And there's people on...♪
I'm back counting down
from the worst to the best dances
from last season.
This didn't make the list,
but you got to see it.
Every time Mackenzie prances
on stage, she wins over the crowd.
You'll see why
in the cutest dance ever.
ANNOUNCER: Joining us next
onto the stage for ages seven,
eight, number 321.
(crowd cheering)
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: Yeah, Mackenzie!
ANNOUNCER: For the top junior
petite soloist today
it's going to 321, Bigger Isn't Better.
It's Mackenzie from Abby Lee Dance.
ABBY: Maybe Mackenzie
has what it takes after all.
I always compare her to Maddie
and maybe I shouldn't, but how can I not?
They're sisters.
When Maddie was seven,
she was already doing the work
of 13 and 14-year-olds.
Now we have Mackenzie.
That kid cartwheels from the minute
she wakes up in the morning,
until her head hits
that pillow at night.
This kid is sassy, and bratty,
and nobody's going to tell her what to do.
Well, except me.
It's no secret that Maddie and Chloe
are my top dancers.
So when I paired them together
in a beautiful duet,
it was nothing less than stellar.
The less these moms get involved,
the better the dances turn out.
At number three, here's Black Swan.
(ominous music playing)
(orchestral music playing)
(crowd cheering)
ABBY: That performance blew me away.
Maddie and Chloe on stage together?
Breathtaking.
These two push each other.
They push each other hard,
and they compliment each other.
They have nice lines.
Their feet are pointed.
Their knees are straight.
They want to win,
and they want to work together.
I just wish that Melissa and Christi
would learn to work together.
It would be so much better
if these two moms
could get on the same track
as their daughters.
Every once in a while,
I choreograph a number
that is too beautiful for words.
Finally, the moms backed off,
and here's the result.
At number two, My Beauty.
SINGER: ♪So this is me♪
♪This is you♪
♪Up close and true♪
♪Let's all be so bright and new♪
♪Oh, how good it feels ♪
♪ To be beautiful ♪
♪How wonderful it feels to be beautiful♪
♪Say hello to your reflection♪
♪See yourself, your true perfection ♪
♪Oh, you know just who you are♪
♪You're meant to be ♪
♪Oh, how good it feels ♪
♪ To be beautiful ♪
♪How wonderful it feels to be beautiful♪
♪So this is me ♪
♪This is you ♪
♪And everything we do♪
♪Feels just the way
that it's supposed to♪
♪ And, oh, how good it feels♪
♪To be beautiful ♪
♪How wonderful
it feels to be beautiful♪
♪Oh, oh♪
♪Oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh, oh ♪
♪Oh, Oh, oh♪
♪Oh, oh♪
♪Oh, oh...♪
(crowd cheering)
This is My Beauty,
Abby Lee Dance Company!
Make some noise!
(crowd cheering)
ABBY: That was our national
title winner right there.
Beautiful.
And the girls were beautiful.
The costumes were feminine,
and frilly, and pink,
and everybody felt good about it.
We used another prop,
a mirror, because it was a reflection.
A reflection looking back
on the entire season.
They were the National winners.
It was great.
This didn't make the list,
but you gotta see it.
Nia has a lot of potential,
and if her mother, Holly,
would just butt out,
this kid might stand a chance.
Here's Nia in The Funkiest Dance.
(slow music playing)
(pop music playing)
SINGER: ♪They call me Laquifa ♪
♪The postmodern pim-what?♪
♪They call me Laquifa,
the postmodern pim-what? ♪
♪Laquifa, what♪
♪Laquifa♪
♪What? What?♪
♪Laquifa ♪
♪What?♪
♪Laquifa. What? What?♪
♪I said what?
I said what?♪
♪I said I-I-I said what?♪
♪I said what?
I said what? ♪
They call-They call...♪
(rapid whats)
♪Work the Hallelu,
work the Hallelu♪
♪Work the Hallelu♪
♪Work the Hallelu,
work the Hallelu♪
work the Hallelu ♪
♪What? Work the...♪
(crowd clapping)
Before we get to the number one
best dance performance
of last season,
I want to show you a number
that I think should have won.
Nothing gives me more pleasure
than to piss off these moms,
so when I decided to choreograph
an amazing group number
with the secret agent theme, of course
the girls would be dancing with guns.
But as always, it was the moms
who were gunning for me.
Here's a slick group routine,
Secret Agents.
(spy thriller music playing)
(crowd cheering)
Did you see that gold on that stage?
Just...
HOLLY: Gorgeous. I didn't think
it had it all together at the beginning
of the week and sing on stage.
-Oh, they were fabulous.
-I have to admit I...
ABBY: It looked like they were in a show.
-It was great.
-It was really good.
Don't your stomachs get full
eating crow week after week
after week?
I am fired up.
Those girls were outstanding.
The secret agents were sassy and cool.
They looked amazing in the costumes,
and the mothers complain,
complain, complain.
I had those girls
and turtlenecks and trench coats.
How much more modest can you be?
I just think they didn't like the guns.
They're props.
They were spray painted gold.
They're brilliant on stage.
I mean, come on, ladies.
Admit it.
I was right.
All right, this is it.
We've been counting down from the worst
to the best dance performances
of last season.
The moms fought me tooth
and nail on this one,
but the judges knew better.
At number one on the countdown.
Here's my personal favorite,
Where Have All the Children Gone?
NARRATOR: The creaking silence of age
echoes through the streets.
All of the children once
running around have evacuated.
Or maybe they just disappeared.
Just yesterday,
they were tying ribbons in trees
and swinging from the branches.
They were leaping over hot coals
and swooning at anything.
Where have all the children gone?
Who remain wander around
like abandoned children
in shopping malls.
Maybe this is just a dream.
Maybe we are sleeping in rooms
filled with metal shelves.
If we put our ears to those shelves
emptied by the fingers of fathers
to the flesh
of their sons and daughters.
Where have all the children gone?
But we know this.
It's really happening.
Where have all the children gone?
(crowd clapping)
Entry number 250.
Where Have All The Children...
(crowd clapping)
ABBY: There you have it.
I think those numbers were spectacular.
I'm exhausted just thinking
about all the time and energy
that went into creating
each one of those pieces.
I hope you like them
and if you don't, I don't really care.
Go stand with the other Dance Moms
and complain.